Nareshit core java FAQ
How to use this keyword and example?
Why can't we use 'this' keyword inside static context?
What is implicit and explicit casting?
Why abstract can't be final and abstraction can't be static?
Why a class can't be private and protected?
When we use runnable interface to create thread?
What is inheritance?
Checked and unchecked exception?
Why static block executes before main()?
Why main() is public and static?
Method overloading?
When we use fullly qualified name instead of import?
Where we use String to primitive data conversion?
What is abstract class?
What is boxing in java?
Where we use try with multiple catch blocks?
Why abstract can't be final and static?
How to access static member in java application?
What are the limitation of default constructor?
What is default constructor?
Why we can't collect object address into integer variable instead of class type?
How JVM instantiate parent class in child object creation?
Can we define main method inside abstract class?
Can we overload main?
How to access non static members in java application?
How to instantiate class, abstract class and interface?
What is the Diff between this() and super()?
Types of inheritance?
How Can we create object inside static block?
WHat is diff bw block and method?
WHat is diff bw static and non static variable?
How to initialise an object?
Diff bw POJO and Bean?
Can a final class extends abstract class?
What is exception and runtime error?
What is syntactical error?
Can we place instance variable inside interface?
What is logical error in java?
What is class? what is abstract class?
How to implement multiple inheritance using interface?
Can we define main method inside interface?
What is default exception handler?
When we call super() explicitly?
What is POJO? Rules?
What is immutable class?Rules?
What is getter and setter method in java?
When we use fully qualified name?
Where we can access members of different access modifiers?
Can a java source file contain more than one public class?
Handle child type exception using it's parent class reference?
Why we can't handle child type exception?
Will JVM creates seperate object for parent in child obj creation?
Why we can't handle error in java?
Why we can't handle same exception more than one time?
How to create Thread?
Default identites of Threads?
Multi threading vs multi tasking?
Need of multi tasking?
What is multi tasking?
What is runnable state in thread life cycle?
What is the super class of all classes in java application?
When we cast object address into interface type reference variable?
Why run can't throws interruptedException?
Why we can't call run() explicitly?
What is daemon thread?
How to find the details of current thread?
How to set identity to a thread?
Diff bw sleep() and Join()?
What is finalize method?
What is final modifier in java?
When JVM starts Garbage collector?
What is garbage collector in java?
Can we convert behaviour of main thread from non daemon to daemon?
How to create daemon thread?
Can we override static method in java?
What is the use of throw keyword?
WHy finalize method is protected?
What is the use of system.gc()?
Can we access static variable directly?
Why we need to set path to JDK?
Can we apply modifiers to local variable?
How to generate random integers?
What is serialization?
What is transient modifier?
What is Deserialization?
Rules to create immutable class?
What is immutable object in java?
What is the process of serialization in has a relation?
Can we call static method directly?
What is local variable and it's limitation?
What are the limitation of local inner class?
What is inner class in java?
Why can't we write serialize data into .txt file?
What is anonymous inner class?
How to pass interface object as a parameter?
How to instantiate non static inner class?
What is local inner class> advantage?
What is array in java?
How to access array elements?
What is dif static and dynamic memory?
What is diff bw array and collection?
Hashset,LinkedHashset and TreeSet?
Diff bw ArrayList and Vector?
When we go for LinkedList instead of ArrayList?
Diff bw Applets and swings?
Diff bw Hashmap,LinkedHashMap,TreeMap?
How to element store into hashtable?